# Licenses

---

## Roxy Game Engine

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Invisible Sloth, LLC; Jason Kisner

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy 
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal 
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights 
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell 
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is 
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next 
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the 
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE.

---

## Inspiration

Portions of this software were inspired by and derived from Mark LaCroix's and 
Noble Robot's Noble Engine. While there are some similarities in 
functionality, the implementation in Roxy is distinctly different, with 
substantial modifications and additions. Features such as scene lifecycle 
management, transitions, input handling, sprite management, sprite animations, 
the extended implementation of `playdate.ui.gridview`, game data management, 
and game settings management are heavily adapted and expanded from the 
concepts in Noble Engine. The implementation has been tailored to fit the 
specific needs and design patterns of Roxy, incorporating similar 
functionalities but with notable adaptations and enhancements, ensuring a 
unique approach. Roxy includes distinct implementations, unique additions, 
structural differences, and custom design patterns, making it a separate work. 
Additionally, Roxy features many non-derivative aspects, such as a distinct 
project organization, singleton managers, object pools, delta time, and 
performance enhancements in C. We aim to continue developing Roxy as a bespoke 
and customized game engine with an emphasis on performance and ease of use.

Noble Engine (https://github.com/NobleRobot/NobleEngine) is licensed under the 
MIT License:

MIT License

Â© 2021 Mark LaCroix, Noble Robot

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

---

## Adaptions

### Easing functions

"roxy/utilities/roxy_ease.h"
"roxy/utilities/roxy_ease.c"

Easing functions adapted from Robert Penner's Easing Equations.

BSD License for Robert Penner's Easing Equations

Copyright (c) 2001 Robert Penner
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

	* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, 
	this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
	* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright 
	notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
	documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
	* Neither the name of the author nor the names of contributors may be used 
	to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific 
	prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE 
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

### Sequencer

"roxy/core/sequences/RoxySequence.lua"
"roxy/core/sequences/SequenceManager.lua"
"roxy/core/sequences/roxy_sequence.h"
"roxy/core/sequences/roxy_sequence.c"
"roxy/utilities/roxy_ease.h"
"roxy/utilities/roxy_ease.c"

Sequence functionality and flat easing functions in Roxy were adapted from Nic 
Magnier's Playdate Sequence library. However, RoxySequence has been 
extensively modified and expanded upon to fit the specific needs and design 
patterns of the Roxy Game Engine. These modifications include unique 
implementations, and performance enhancements that distinguish RoxySequence 
from the original library.

PlaydateSequence (https://github.com/NicMagnier/PlaydateSequence) is licensed 
under the MIT License:

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Nic Magnier

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

---

Note: Future versions of the Roxy Game Engine may include certain logo assets 
that have a different license than MIT.
